This is a question marketers have been
asking forever and a question that a lot
of people have been asking marketers for
forever too and thankfully the SEMrush
folks have done a beautiful job
answering. So uh 260 billion rows of
clickstream data between January 2024
and June 2025 to study
uh whether people were replacing their
Google search usage with chat GBT study
group. This is important for
methodology. I I know I'm focusing on
this, but just stick with me. US users
who began using ChatGpt in Q1 of 2025 of
this year with no previous activity last
year and then comparing
whether they searched Google more or
less after they started using chat GPT.
This is really interesting. In the green
here, what you can see is
before they used chat GBT, obviously
zero sessions, but then after it was
five sessions per week on average. So
they were visiting chat GBT five times.
These are US desktop users, millions of
devices, all opt-in panel. And then
10.5 times they were searching Google
before they started using chat GPT and
12.6 six on average per week after.
You can argue that the advent of AI
overviews is reducing traffic. You can
argue that chat GPT, which doesn't send
out much traffic at all, very very
little in fact, is changing how digital
marketing works. But I don't think it is
reasonable to argue after such a robust,
well-done study that the adoption of AI
tools is reducing the amount of search
that's happening inside of Google. If
you're seeing less traffic from Google,
if SEO doesn't feel like it's paying off
anymore, I would argue that is mostly
because of zeroclick search and
zeroclick everything, not because of AI
or AI tools replacing search activity.
That that that seems to be the
conclusion here. There's a ton more data
in this report. You can dig through it.
I was super impressed with methodology
and presentation. I urge you to check it
out. But I'll put a link in the
comments.